In order to explain the whitening issue thoroughly,
I recently
updated the details of the 16-type whitening method in two parts.
As a result, I received many questions about whitening,
so today is a straightforward
whitening Q&A.
I hope the answers to these questions
can help more people. Let me
first answer the most frequently asked question
, which is, aren't there 4 types of darkening? Is
it possible for a person
to have two types at the same time?
What if I have all four types ?
First of all, the answer is
that it is possible for our face to have multiple types at the same time
. What should we do in this case?
Never solve them all at once
, but solve them one by one.
Why can't all problems be solved at the same time?
Because each of
our whitening ingredients is irritating.
The more you stack them, the more
irritating it will be. The bigger
it is, the more likely it is that instead of whitening
, you may also get allergic reactions.
So
we can't
apply all these types of products on our face at once
, but we have to solve
them one by one. When solving them one by one,
in what order should we solve them?
Start with the easier ones with
a short cycle
and quick results
, and then solve the more difficult ones
with a longer cycle.
If they are arranged in order,
it is tanning type → red and black type → dull type → yellow type.
What specific products should be used?
Friends
can look back at
the relevant product introductions in
the second half of the 16-type whitening method.
The next question is
how to remove liver spots
? First of all, we have to talk about the term liver spots. It
is actually a more popular name. It is
the symptoms caused by liver qi stagnation
in traditional Chinese medicine , not that it is really related to the liver.
This type of spot is scientifically called chloasma.
Chloasma
is generally
related
to our endocrine system
, including changes in hormones.
Therefore, many female friends will develop chloasma before and after childbirth
or when entering menopause.
What should I do if it already has chloasma
? First of all, it should be pointed out that
cosmetics cannot remove spots,
they can only lighten them
because many chloasma
grow in deeper parts of the skin,
such as the dermis or the deeper epidermis.
When we use our cosmetics,
because the skin barrier is a complete system
, the deeper the product is absorbed,
the
lower its concentration will be. When it is absorbed near your spots,
its concentration
is far from reaching the effective concentration.
Then someone may ask,
can't I just increase the concentration
and use a higher one?
But it doesn't work
because Because when the concentration is very high,
the safety of using it on your epidermis
cannot be guaranteed.
It will irritate you and
you will be allergic
, and you will not achieve the effect you want.
So what if you really want to remove spots?
I suggest
that you consult a dermatologist
or a cosmetologist in the hospital
to see if there are any related medical beauty projects
that can help you remove the spots.
Common projects
are such as fractional laser
ultra-picosecond, photorejuvenation, etc.
So which specific project to choose?
We must go to a regular hospital
and find a regular doctor to give you advice.
Another very important point is that
after we have completed these freckle removal projects,
we must also pay attention to preventing darkening and recurring spots.
There are two key actions
for this preventive measure.
The first is sun protection
because sun protection can prevent you from getting spots
by eliminating the stimulation of ultraviolet rays.
And even if the spot has already grown,
sunscreen
can help you prevent the spot from growing too deep
or growing more.
The second action
is that we can actively repair the barrier
and choose mild whitening products.
For related products,
we can refer to
red-black and yellow-gas products,
such as VC derivatives containing tranexamic acid
or arbutin
and other types of mild whitening products.
Let’s talk
about the third question.
Several friends asked: Why is my skin very white
after washing my face or applying a mask,
but it becomes dull and dark again after a while?
In this case, do I need whitening?
This phenomenon occurs
to many people
, but it can be divided into two situations.
The first situation is that you have oily skin
. When you just wash your face,
your skin is The oil on your skin is washed off,
so
the original color of your skin is revealed
, which is very white.
But as time goes by,
you produce oil again,
and this oil will oxidize.
After oxidation, this oil will become yellow
or even soy sauce-colored,
and you will feel that you have become darker
and darker. People in this situation
need to use products that can control oil
while resisting the oxidation of your oil.
Typical
products of this type
include
essences containing trioxyethyl ascorbic acid, a water- and oil-soluble VC.
For example, Kiehl's Whitening Bottle
can resist the oxidation of your oil, so that
your whiteness can last longer.
In the final analysis,
this is not a skin color problem
, but a problem of the oxidation of your oil.
Second, The first situation
is that you have dry skin.
After washing your face and applying a facial mask,
because you have been in contact with a lot of water
in a short period of time
, the hydration level of your skin
will increase significantly
. The skin will appear more transparent, and
you will look brighter
and whiter.
What does this mean?
This means that under normal circumstances, you are actually dark,
and you can only become white under special circumstances.
This whiteness is an illusion,
not real whiteness . Most of
the friends who raise such questions
belong to the yellow type among the four types of darkening.
Because the first three types are difficult
to make you
look much whiter by washing your face and applying a facial mask,
then when choosing products, we should choose the yellow type
and then the corresponding products for dry skin.
Having said that,
I have another suggestion. Everyone says
that although applying a facial mask
can quickly make your skin look clear
, I recommend
not using it more than three times a week.
Repeatedly and frequently increasing skin hydration
will have a side effect
: it will weaken your skin barrier, allowing
external stimuli to penetrate more easily,
making your skin more sensitive.
The fourth question
is, after being exposed to the sun, I didn't get a tan,
but I got spots.
Which of the four types of darkening does it belong to?
The answer is red-black type
because its physiological chain is actually like this:
when you are stimulated by ultraviolet rays,
your skin cells will produce
inflammation, which stimulates the production of melanin.
The key to
the red-black type
is also the melanin production triggered by inflammation,
so this type belongs to the red-black type
related products.
We can refer to the related
products containing tranexamic acid
in the red and black types. The next question is,
is tranexamic acid poorly absorbed?
The answer is yes.
The ingredients of our cosmetics
have four chemical properties: hydrophilic
, lipophilic, amphiphilic
, and amphiphobic .
Among them, the more lipophilic, the better the absorption.
Why?
Because the cell membrane of our skin cells
is composed of a phospholipid bilayer.
This phospholipid
is a kind of oil.
So if the ingredient is more lipophilic,
the better its affinity with the phospholipid bilayer, the
easier and faster
it will be absorbed
. Tranexamic acid
is not lipophilic, it is hydrophilic,
so it
has a natural repulsion effect
with the cell membrane of the skin,
and its absorption is not
good . But in fact, we don’t need to worry too much
because the people who make the formulas,
these cosmetic brands,
are more worried about this issue than users
. So
they will take many measures to solve this problem
, such as encapsulating tranexamic acid and
liposomalizing
it or making the formula into nanoemulsion, etc.
They will promote the absorption of tranexamic acid.
For example, Shiseido's patented ingredient m-tranexamic acid
is used to encapsulate tranexamic acid.
In addition,
many products will be combined with niacinamide or polyols
or acids to promote the absorption of tranexamic acid.
So as long as it is a product produced by a regular brand,
we can just use it.
The next question is that microneedles will also irritate the skin
, so why does the skin become better
after microneedling ?
The friend who asked this question
may be confused
because I said before that
all types of darkening come from stimulation,
so microneedles are also irritating, so why
does the skin become better
after using it ?
The key to this question is that
the stimulation I mentioned
is completely different from the stimulation of microneedles. There are two types of stimulation.
The stimulation I'm talking about is,
for example, the stimulation of ultraviolet rays and
the stimulation of endocrine changes.
It's very complex,
with a chain reaction
, chemical and
physiological.
The stimulation of microneedles
is physical
and single.
For example,
if your skin is your house,
then the stimulation I'm talking about
is like a thief breaking into your house.
The thief
may steal things
or smash and rob, and
you don't know
what's going on, so you can only
fight him fiercely.
In the process,
your house is a mess.
The stimulation of microneedles
is like a stone flying from outside your house
and breaking your window.
You repair the window and
your house is intact.
So why does the skin get better after using microneedles?
The microneedles we usually use
are usually extremely small needles
between 0.25 mm and 2.5 mm.
They pass through By creating micro-wounds on your skin
to promote the production of local collagen and EGF,
your micro-wounds can be repaired.
During the repair process,
your old acne scars and
marks will heal and
grow again.
So after the micro-needle treatment,
you will feel that your skin is better than before.
But there is one thing you need to pay special attention to
. Sometimes micro-needles
are used
to make other products absorb better.
Think about it, if you make a lot of holes in your skin,
then no matter what product you use later
, it will absorb more,
right? If this product is irritating,
then the irritation will be amplified several times.
So there is a risk
in
what product you use later.
I would like to remind everyone
of this point. I hope everyone will use it in a regular hospital
under the guidance of a regular doctor.
The next question about
using microneedle products
is whether niacinamide is not suitable for dry skin.
In fact, there is a famous saying in our chemical field
that it is nonsense to talk about efficacy without considering the dosage.
So high-content single niacinamide
may not be suitable for dry skin because of oil control.
But if you have a suitable content
and match it with a sufficiently moisturizing system
to make a finished product,
dry skin can still use niacinamide.
Then why did I not recommend it for dry skin
when talking about niacinamide
in the 16-type whitening method
? Because when used for whitening,
the recommended dosage of niacinamide is about 5%
or more. This dosage
has a certain oil control effect
on dry skin,
but it does not mean that dry
skin
Niacinamide cannot be used on dry skin because, for example, a repair lotion or cream
made with 3% to 4% niacinamide
is also very effective in repairing dry skin.
In a nutshell,
niacinamide can be used on dry skin
, but it is generally used for repairing dry skin
rather than whitening.
The next question is,
a friend said that
when he took a selfie with his mobile phone,
he felt that his skin had large pores
and many red and black spots,
which looked very rough.
He asked me what to do.
This is actually not a skin color problem
, but another area
related to pores.
Since I can't see the photo of your skin
, I can only guess
that these red and black spots
may be... A mixture of glycated pores
and inflammatory pores.
Simply put
, the inflammation and glycation inside our skin
are reflected in the pores,
which means the pores become darker
and deeper. If you want to determine which type it is,
you can zoom in on the skin photo
and look closely at the shape of the pores.
If the
edges of the pores are a little black
and there
seem to
be some red bumps underneath, then
it is an inflammatory pore.
If the pores
are not red underneath
but the edges are brown, then
it is a glycated pore.
The more common pore treatment methods on the market
are generally to use mud masks to clean
or acid. To peel
or use A-alcohol to shrink pores
, but in fact,
our pores are divided into 5 types
, and different types have different solutions.
As for this friend's problem,
if he has inflammatory pores,
I suggest that he use soothing and anti-inflammatory products
to soothe and anti-inflammatory the entire face.
When his inflammation slowly subsides and
the skin is soothed enough,
the red and black spots
will also disappear.
How to choose soothing and anti-inflammatory products?
In fact, it is a more complicated issue.
It depends on your skin type.
For example, if you have oily skin
and want to fight inflammation,
you can use witch hazel
, calendula, or olive.
But if you have dry skin,
you need to use ceramide or B5 for anti-inflammatory.
This problem
is very complicated
and there are many types of pores
. So if you are interested,
we can talk about the pore problem later
to
explain to you
how to judge
what type of pores you have and
what kind of products to use to solve them.
If you think this topic is of interest to you,
please tell me in the comment section.
I am the formulator Xingxing.
If you like to listen to skin care science popularization
and like to read product reviews,
please like, subscribe and follow me.